website/source/docs/providers/cloudstack/r/static_nat.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "cloudstack"
page_title: "CloudStack: cloudstack_static_nat"
sidebar_current: "docs-cloudstack-resource-static-nat"
description: |-
  Enables static NAT for a given IP address.
---

# cloudstack\_static\_nat

Enables static NAT for a given IP address

## Example Usage

```
resource "cloudstack_static_nat" "default" {
  ip_address_id = "f8141e2f-4e7e-4c63-9362-986c908b7ea7"
  virtual_machine_id = "6ca2a163-bc68-429c-adc8-ab4a620b1bb3"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `ip_address_id` - (Required) The public IP address ID for which static
    NAT will be enabled. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `network_id` - (Optional) The network ID of the VM the static NAT will be
    enabled for. Required when public IP address is not associated with any
    guest network yet (VPC case). Changing this forces a new resource to be
    created.

* `virtual_machine_id` - (Required) The virtual machine ID to enable the
    static NAT feature for. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `vm_guest_ip` - (Optional) The virtual machine IP address for the port
    forwarding rule (useful when the virtual machine has a secondairy NIC).
    Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported:

* `id` - The static nat ID.
* `network` - The network the public IP address is associated with.
* `vm_guest_ip` - The IP address of the virtual machine that is used
    for the port forwarding rule.

Commit message:

Add project parameter to additional resources

website/source/docs/providers/cloudstack/r/static_nat.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "cloudstack"
page_title: "CloudStack: cloudstack_static_nat"
sidebar_current: "docs-cloudstack-resource-static-nat"
description: |-
  Enables static NAT for a given IP address.
---

# cloudstack\_static\_nat

Enables static NAT for a given IP address

## Example Usage

```
resource "cloudstack_static_nat" "default" {
  ip_address_id = "f8141e2f-4e7e-4c63-9362-986c908b7ea7"
  virtual_machine_id = "6ca2a163-bc68-429c-adc8-ab4a620b1bb3"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `ip_address_id` - (Required) The public IP address ID for which static
    NAT will be enabled. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `network_id` - (Optional) The network ID of the VM the static NAT will be
    enabled for. Required when public IP address is not associated with any
    guest network yet (VPC case). Changing this forces a new resource to be
    created.

* `virtual_machine_id` - (Required) The virtual machine ID to enable the
    static NAT feature for. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `vm_guest_ip` - (Optional) The virtual machine IP address for the port
    forwarding rule (useful when the virtual machine has a secondairy NIC).
    Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `project` - (Optional) The name or ID of the project to deploy this
    instance to. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported:

* `id` - The static nat ID.
* `network` - The network the public IP address is associated with.
* `vm_guest_ip` - The IP address of the virtual machine that is used
    for the port forwarding rule.
