website/docs/commands/state/list.html.md, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: state list"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-state-sub-list"
description: |-
  The terraform state list command is used to list resources within a Terraform state.
---

# Command: state list

The `terraform state list` command is used to list resources within a
[Terraform state](/docs/state/index.html).

## Usage

Usage: `terraform state list [options] [address...]`

The command will list all resources in the state file matching the given
addresses (if any). If no addresses are given, all resources are listed.

The resources listed are sorted according to module depth order followed
by alphabetical. This means that resources that are in your immediate
configuration are listed first, and resources that are more deeply nested
within modules are listed last.

For complex infrastructures, the state can contain thousands of resources.
To filter these, provide one or more patterns to the command. Patterns are
in [resource addressing format](/docs/commands/state/addressing.html).

The command-line flags are all optional. The list of available flags are:

* `-state=path` - Path to the state file. Defaults to "terraform.tfstate".
  Ignored when [remote state](/docs/state/remote.html) is used.
* `-id=id` - ID of resources to show. Ignored when unset.

## Example: All Resources

This example will list all resources, including modules:

```
$ terraform state list
aws_instance.foo
aws_instance.bar[0]
aws_instance.bar[1]
module.elb.aws_elb.main
```

## Example: Filtering by Resource

This example will only list resources for the given name:

```
$ terraform state list aws_instance.bar
aws_instance.bar[0]
aws_instance.bar[1]
```

## Example: Filtering by Module

This example will only list resources in the given module:

```
$ terraform state list module.elb
module.elb.aws_elb.main
```

## Example: Filtering by ID

This example will only list the resource whose ID is specified on the
command line. This is useful to find where in your configuration a
specific resource is located.

```
$ terraform state list -id=sg-1234abcd
module.elb.aws_security_group.sg
```

Commit message:

command/state list: list resources in nested and expanded modules (#27268)
* command/state list: list resources in nested and expaneded modules

A few distinct bugs fixed in here:

There was a bug in the logic checking if a given module was the child of
the targetAddr, now fixed. That resolved the basic issue where resources
in nested submodules were not listed.

The logic around allowMissing needed some tweaking to allow for empty
modules, as long as those modules had submodules with resources. state
list is the only command using allowMissing with false so this felt safe
to do.

Finally I extended the logic so list would included expanded modules,
which is to say giving module.foo would result in resources from
module.foo[1], module.foo[0], etc.

* update state list docs to show that module filtering includes any nested
modules

website/docs/commands/state/list.html.md, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: state list"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-state-sub-list"
description: |-
  The terraform state list command is used to list resources within a Terraform state.
---

# Command: state list

The `terraform state list` command is used to list resources within a
[Terraform state](/docs/state/index.html).

## Usage

Usage: `terraform state list [options] [address...]`

The command will list all resources in the state file matching the given
addresses (if any). If no addresses are given, all resources are listed.

The resources listed are sorted according to module depth order followed
by alphabetical. This means that resources that are in your immediate
configuration are listed first, and resources that are more deeply nested
within modules are listed last.

For complex infrastructures, the state can contain thousands of resources.
To filter these, provide one or more patterns to the command. Patterns are
in [resource addressing format](/docs/commands/state/addressing.html).

The command-line flags are all optional. The list of available flags are:

* `-state=path` - Path to the state file. Defaults to "terraform.tfstate".
  Ignored when [remote state](/docs/state/remote.html) is used.
* `-id=id` - ID of resources to show. Ignored when unset.

## Example: All Resources

This example will list all resources, including modules:

```
$ terraform state list
aws_instance.foo
aws_instance.bar[0]
aws_instance.bar[1]
module.elb.aws_elb.main
```

## Example: Filtering by Resource

This example will only list resources for the given name:

```
$ terraform state list aws_instance.bar
aws_instance.bar[0]
aws_instance.bar[1]
```

## Example: Filtering by Module

This example will list resources in the given module and any submodules:

```
$ terraform state list module.elb
module.elb.aws_elb.main
module.elb.module.secgroups.aws_security_group.sg
```

## Example: Filtering by ID

This example will only list the resource whose ID is specified on the
command line. This is useful to find where in your configuration a
specific resource is located.

```
$ terraform state list -id=sg-1234abcd
module.elb.aws_security_group.sg
```
