---
layout: "vault"
page_title: "Vault: vault_generic_secret data source"
sidebar_current: "docs-vault-datasource-generic-secret"
description: |-
  Reads arbitrary data from a given path in Vault
---

# vault\_generic\_secret

Reads arbitrary data from a given path in Vault.

This resource is primarily intended to be used with
[Vault's "generic" secret backend](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/generic/index.html),
but it is also compatible with any other Vault endpoint that supports
the `vault read` command.

~> **Important** All data retrieved from Vault will be
written in cleartext to state file generated by Terraform, will appear in
the console output when Terraform runs, and may be included in plan files
if secrets are interpolated into any resource attributes.
Protect these artifacts accordingly. See
[the main provider documentation](../index.html)
for more details.

## Example Usage

```hcl
data "vault_generic_secret" "rundeck_auth" {
  path = "secret/rundeck_auth"
}

# Rundeck Provider, for example
provider "rundeck" {
  url        = "http://rundeck.example.com/"
  auth_token = "${data.vault_generic_secret.rundeck_auth.data["auth_token"]}"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `path` - (Required) The full logical path from which to request data.
To read data from the "generic" secret backend mounted in Vault by
default, this should be prefixed with `secret/`. Reading from other backends
with this data source is possible; consult each backend's documentation
to see which endpoints support the `GET` method.

## Required Vault Capabilities

Use of this resource requires the `read` capability on the given path.

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported:

* `data_json` - A string containing the full data payload retrieved from
Vault, serialized in JSON format.

* `data` - A mapping whose keys are the top-level data keys returned from
Vault and whose values are the corresponding values. This map can only
represent string data, so any non-string values returned from Vault are
serialized as JSON.

* `lease_id` - The lease identifier assigned by Vault, if any.

* `lease_duration` - The duration of the secret lease, in seconds relative
to the time the data was requested. Once this time has passed any plan
generated with this data may fail to apply.

* `lease_start_time` - As a convenience, this records the current time
on the computer where Terraform is running when the data is requested.
This can be used to approximate the absolute time represented by
`lease_duration`, though users must allow for any clock drift and response
latency relative to to the Vault server.

* `lease_renewable` - `true` if the lease can be renewed using Vault's
`sys/renew/{lease-id}` endpoint. Terraform does not currently support lease
renewal, and so it will request a new lease each time this data source is
refreshed.
