website/source/docs/providers/aws/d/availability_zones.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "aws"
page_title: "AWS: aws_availability_zones"
sidebar_current: "docs-aws-datasource-availability-zones"
description: |-
    Provides a list of Availability Zones which can be used by an AWS account.
---

# aws\_availability\_zones

The Availability Zones data source allows access to the list of AWS
Availability Zones which can be accessed by an AWS account within the region
configured in the provider.

## Example Usage

```
# Declare the data source
data "aws_availability_zones" "available" {}

# e.g. Create subnets in the first two available availability zones

resource "aws_subnet" "primary" {
  availability_zone = "${data.aws_availability_zones.available.names[0]}"

  # Other properties...
}

resource "aws_subnet" "secondary" {
  availability_zone = "${data.aws_availability_zones.available.names[1]}"

  # Other properties...
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `state` - (Optional) Allows to filter list of Availability Zones based on their
current state. Can be either `"available"`, `"information"`, `"impaired"` or
`"unavailable"` (Default: `"available"`).

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported:

* `names` - A list of the Availability Zone names available to the account.

Commit message:

Do not filter on state by default.
This commit makes the state filter applicable only when set.

Signed-off-by: Krzysztof Wilczynski <krzysztof.wilczynski@linux.com>

website/source/docs/providers/aws/d/availability_zones.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "aws"
page_title: "AWS: aws_availability_zones"
sidebar_current: "docs-aws-datasource-availability-zones"
description: |-
    Provides a list of Availability Zones which can be used by an AWS account.
---

# aws\_availability\_zones

The Availability Zones data source allows access to the list of AWS
Availability Zones which can be accessed by an AWS account within the region
configured in the provider.

## Example Usage

```
# Declare the data source
data "aws_availability_zones" "available" {}

# e.g. Create subnets in the first two available availability zones

resource "aws_subnet" "primary" {
  availability_zone = "${data.aws_availability_zones.available.names[0]}"

  # Other properties...
}

resource "aws_subnet" "secondary" {
  availability_zone = "${data.aws_availability_zones.available.names[1]}"

  # Other properties...
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `state` - (Optional) Allows to filter list of Availability Zones based on their
current state. Can be either `"available"`, `"information"`, `"impaired"` or
`"unavailable"`. By default the list includes a complete set of Availability Zones
to which the underlying AWS account has access, regardless of their state.

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported:

* `names` - A list of the Availability Zone names available to the account.
