website/docs/cli/commands/state/pull.html.md, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: state pull"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-state-sub-pull"
description: |-
  The `terraform state pull` command is used to manually download and output the state from remote state.
---

# Command: state pull

The `terraform state pull` command is used to manually download and output
the state from [remote state](/docs/language/state/remote.html). This command also
works with local state.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform state pull`

This command will download the state from its current location, upgrade the
local copy to the latest state file version, and output the raw format to
stdout.

This is useful for reading values out of state (potentially pairing this
command with something like [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/)). It is
also useful if you need to make manual modifications to state.

~> Note: This command cannot be used to inspect the Terraform version of
the remote state, as it will always be converted to the current Terraform
version before output.

Commit message:

clarify version that pull upgrades local state to (#28204)

website/docs/cli/commands/state/pull.html.md, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: state pull"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-state-sub-pull"
description: |-
  The `terraform state pull` command is used to manually download and output the state from remote state.
---

# Command: state pull

The `terraform state pull` command is used to manually download and output
the state from [remote state](/docs/language/state/remote.html). This command also
works with local state.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform state pull`

This command will download the state from its current location, upgrade the
local copy to the latest state file version that is compatible with
locally-installed Terraform, and output the raw format to stdout.

This is useful for reading values out of state (potentially pairing this
command with something like [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/)). It is
also useful if you need to make manual modifications to state.

~> Note: This command cannot be used to inspect the Terraform version of
the remote state, as it will always be converted to the current Terraform
version before output.
