website/source/docs/providers/azurerm/r/servicebus_topic.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "azurerm"
page_title: "Azure Resource Manager: azurerm_servicebus_topic"
sidebar_current: "docs-azurerm-resource-servicebus-topic"
description: |-
  Create a ServiceBus Topic.
---

# azurerm\_servicebus\_topic

Create a ServiceBus Topic.

**Note** Topics can only be created in Namespaces with an SKU or `standard` or
higher.

## Example Usage

```
resource "azurerm_resource_group" "test" {
    name = "resourceGroup1"
    location = "West US"
}

resource "azurerm_servicebus_namespace" "test" {
    name = "acceptanceTestServiceBusNamespace"
    location = "West US"
    resource_group_name = "${azurerm_resource_group.test.name}"
    sku = "standard"

    tags {
        environment = "Production"
    }
}

resource "azurerm_servicebus_topic" "test" {
    name = "testTopic"
    location = "West US"
    resource_group_name = "${azurerm_resource_group.test.name}"
    namespace_name = "${azurerm_servicebus_namespace.test.name}"

    enable_partitioning = true
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - (Required) Specifies the name of the ServiceBus Topic resource. Changing this forces a
    new resource to be created.

* `namespace_name` - (Required) The name of the ServiceBus Namespace to create
    this topic in. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `location` - (Required) Specifies the supported Azure location where the resource exists.
    Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `resource_group_name` - (Required) The name of the resource group in which to
    create the namespace. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `auto_delete_on_idle` - (Optional) The idle interval after which the
    Topic is automatically deleted, minimum of 5 minutes. Provided in the [TimeSpan](#timespan-format)
    format.

* `default_message_ttl` - (Optional) The TTL of messages sent to this topic if no
    TTL value is set on the message itself. Provided in the [TimeSpan](#timespan-format)
    format.

* `duplicate_detection_history_time_window` - (Optional) The duration during which
    duplicates can be detected. Provided in the [TimeSpan](#timespan-format) format.

* `enable_batched_operations` - (Optional) Boolean flag which controls if server-side
    batched operations are enabled. Defaults to false.

* `enable_express` - (Optional) Boolean flag which controls whether Express Entities
    are enabled. An express topic holds a message in memory temporarily before writing
    it to persistent storage. Defaults to false.

* `enable_filtering_messages_before_publishing` - (Optional) Boolean flag which
    controls whether messages should be filtered before publishing. Defaults to
    false.

* `enable_partitioning` - (Optional) Boolean flag which controls whether to enable
    the topic to be partitioned across multiple message brokers. Defaults to false.

* `max_size_in_megabytes` - (Optional) Integer value which controls the size of
    memory allocated for the topic.

* `requires_duplicate_detection` - (Optional) Boolean flag which controls whether
    the Topic requires duplicate detection. Defaults to false.

* `support_ordering` - (Optional) Boolean flag which controls whether the Topic
    supports ordering. Defaults to false.

### TimeSpan Format

Some arguments for this resource are required in the TimeSpan format which is
used to represent a lengh of time. The supported format is documented [here](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/se73z7b9(v=vs.110).aspx#Anchor_2)

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported:

* `id` - The ServiceBus Topic ID.

Commit message:

provider/azurerm: fix servicebus_topic updating values
enable_partitioning set to ForceNew
requires_duplicate_detection set to ForceNew

max_size_in_megabytes would cause a loop if enable_partitioning was true as this
causes the value to be multiplied by 16 for it's effective value, this computed
value is then returned by the ARM API in the same field which caused Terraform
to always detect a change

```
TF_ACC=1 go test ./builtin/providers/azurerm -v -run TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic -timeout 120m
=== RUN   TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic_importBasic
--- PASS: TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic_importBasic (345.08s)
=== RUN   TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic_basic
--- PASS: TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic_basic (342.23s)
=== RUN   TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic_update
--- PASS: TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic_update (359.56s)
=== RUN   TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic_enablePartitioning
--- PASS: TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic_enablePartitioning (362.80s)
=== RUN   TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic_enableDuplicateDetection
--- PASS: TestAccAzureRMServiceBusTopic_enableDuplicateDetection (364.97s)
PASS
ok  	github.com/hashicorp/terraform/builtin/providers/azurerm	1774.657s
```

website/source/docs/providers/azurerm/r/servicebus_topic.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "azurerm"
page_title: "Azure Resource Manager: azurerm_servicebus_topic"
sidebar_current: "docs-azurerm-resource-servicebus-topic"
description: |-
  Create a ServiceBus Topic.
---

# azurerm\_servicebus\_topic

Create a ServiceBus Topic.

**Note** Topics can only be created in Namespaces with an SKU or `standard` or
higher.

## Example Usage

```
resource "azurerm_resource_group" "test" {
    name = "resourceGroup1"
    location = "West US"
}

resource "azurerm_servicebus_namespace" "test" {
    name = "acceptanceTestServiceBusNamespace"
    location = "West US"
    resource_group_name = "${azurerm_resource_group.test.name}"
    sku = "standard"

    tags {
        environment = "Production"
    }
}

resource "azurerm_servicebus_topic" "test" {
    name = "testTopic"
    location = "West US"
    resource_group_name = "${azurerm_resource_group.test.name}"
    namespace_name = "${azurerm_servicebus_namespace.test.name}"

    enable_partitioning = true
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - (Required) Specifies the name of the ServiceBus Topic resource. Changing this forces a
    new resource to be created.

* `namespace_name` - (Required) The name of the ServiceBus Namespace to create
    this topic in. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `location` - (Required) Specifies the supported Azure location where the resource exists.
    Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `resource_group_name` - (Required) The name of the resource group in which to
    create the namespace. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `auto_delete_on_idle` - (Optional) The idle interval after which the
    Topic is automatically deleted, minimum of 5 minutes. Provided in the [TimeSpan](#timespan-format)
    format.

* `default_message_ttl` - (Optional) The TTL of messages sent to this topic if no
    TTL value is set on the message itself. Provided in the [TimeSpan](#timespan-format)
    format.

* `duplicate_detection_history_time_window` - (Optional) The duration during which
    duplicates can be detected. Provided in the [TimeSpan](#timespan-format) format.

* `enable_batched_operations` - (Optional) Boolean flag which controls if server-side
    batched operations are enabled. Defaults to false.

* `enable_express` - (Optional) Boolean flag which controls whether Express Entities
    are enabled. An express topic holds a message in memory temporarily before writing
    it to persistent storage. Defaults to false.

* `enable_filtering_messages_before_publishing` - (Optional) Boolean flag which
    controls whether messages should be filtered before publishing. Defaults to
    false.

* `enable_partitioning` - (Optional) Boolean flag which controls whether to enable
    the topic to be partitioned across multiple message brokers. Defaults to false.
    Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

* `max_size_in_megabytes` - (Optional) Integer value which controls the size of
    memory allocated for the topic. Supported values are multiples of 1024 up to
    10240, if `enable_partitioning` is enabled then 16 partitions will be created
    per GB, making the maximum possible topic size 163840 (10240 * 16).

* `requires_duplicate_detection` - (Optional) Boolean flag which controls whether
    the Topic requires duplicate detection. Defaults to false. Changing this forces
    a new resource to be created.

* `support_ordering` - (Optional) Boolean flag which controls whether the Topic
    supports ordering. Defaults to false.

### TimeSpan Format

Some arguments for this resource are required in the TimeSpan format which is
used to represent a lengh of time. The supported format is documented [here](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/se73z7b9(v=vs.110).aspx#Anchor_2)

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported:

* `id` - The ServiceBus Topic ID.
