website/docs/cli/state/resource-addressing.html.md, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Internals: Resource Address"
sidebar_current: "docs-internals-resource-addressing"
description: |-
  Resource addressing is used to target specific resources in a larger
  infrastructure.
---

# Resource Addressing

A __Resource Address__ is a string that references a specific resource in a
larger infrastructure. An address is made up of two parts:

```
[module path][resource spec]
```

## Module path

A module path addresses a module within the tree of modules. It takes the form:

```
module.module_name[module index]
```

 * `module` - Module keyword indicating a child module (non-root). Multiple `module`
   keywords in a path indicate nesting.
 * `module_name` - User-defined name of the module.
 * `[module index]` - (Optional) [Index](#index-values-for-modules-and-resources) into a
   module with multiple instances, surrounded by square brace characters (`[` and `]`).

An address without a resource spec, i.e. `module.foo` applies to every resource within
the module if a single module, or all instances of a module if a module has multiple instances.
To address all resources of a particular module instance, include the module index in the address,
such as `module.foo[0]`.

If the module path is omitted, the address applies to the root module.

An example of the `module` keyword delineating between two modules that have multiple instances:

```
module.foo[0].module.bar["a"]
```

-> Module index only applies to modules in Terraform v0.13 or later, as in earlier
versions of Terraform, a module could not have multiple instances.

## Resource spec

A resource spec addresses a specific resource in the config. It takes the form:

```
resource_type.resource_name[resource index]
```

 * `resource_type` - Type of the resource being addressed.
 * `resource_name` - User-defined name of the resource.
 * `[resource index]` - (Optional) [Index](#index-values-for-modules-and-resources)
   into a resource with multiple instances, surrounded by square brace characters (`[` and `]`).

-> In Terraform v0.12 and later, a resource spec without a module path prefix
matches only resources in the root module. In earlier versions, a resource spec
without a module path prefix will match resources with the same type and name
in any descendent module.

## Index values for Modules and Resources

The following specifications apply to index values on modules and resources with multiple instances:

 * `[N]` where `N` is a `0`-based numerical index into a resource with multiple
   instances specified by the `count` meta-argument. Omitting an index when
   addressing a resource where `count > 1` means that the address references
   all instances.
 * `["INDEX"]` where `INDEX` is a alphanumerical key index into a resource with
   multiple instances specified by the `for_each` meta-argument.

## Examples

### count Example

Given a Terraform config that includes:

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  # ...
  count = 4
}
```

An address like this:

```
aws_instance.web[3]
```

Refers to only the last instance in the config, and an address like this:

```
aws_instance.web
```

Refers to all four "web" instances.

### for_each Example

Given a Terraform config that includes:

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  # ...
  for_each = {
    "terraform": "value1",
    "resource":  "value2",
    "indexing":  "value3",
    "example":   "value4",
  }
}
```

An address like this:

```
aws_instance.web["example"]
```

Refers to only the "example" instance in the config.

Commit message:

website: Reworking of the "terraform plan" docs, and related pages
It's been a long time since we gave this page an overhaul, and with our
ongoing efforts to make plan and apply incorporate all of the side-effects
that might need to be done against a configuration it seems like a good
time for some restructuring in that vein.

The starting idea here is to formally split the many "terraform plan"
options into a few different categories:
 - Planning modes
 - Planning options
 - Other options

The planning modes and options are the subset that are also accepted by
"terraform apply" when it's running in its default mode of generating a
plan and then prompting for interactive approval of it. This then allows
us to avoid duplicating all of that information on the "terraform apply"
page, and thus allows us to spend more words discussing each of them.

This also changes the docs for "terraform refresh" and "terraform taint"
to frame them as legacy commands preserved for backward compatibility,
pointing users instead to the relevant options on "terraform plan".

This commit describes some new options that were added in previous commits
but for which we plan some further improvements in subsequent commits.
The new "terraform plan" options described here are therefore not fully
functional as of this commit, but they have been minimally implemented
in the last two commits before this one.

website/docs/cli/state/resource-addressing.html.md, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Internals: Resource Address"
sidebar_current: "docs-internals-resource-addressing"
description: |-
  A resource address is a string that identifies zero or more resource
  instances in your overall configuration.
---

# Resource Addressing

A _resource address_ is a string that identifies zero or more resource
instances in your overall configuration.

An address is made up of two parts:

```
[module path][resource spec]
```

In some contexts Terraform might allow for an incomplete resource address that
only refers to a module as a whole, or that omits the index for a
multi-instance resource. In those cases, the meaning depends on the context,
so you'll need to refer to the documentation for the specific feature you
are using which parses resource addresses.

## Module path

A module path addresses a module within the tree of modules. It takes the form:

```
module.module_name[module index]
```

 * `module` - Module keyword indicating a child module (non-root). Multiple `module`
   keywords in a path indicate nesting.
 * `module_name` - User-defined name of the module.
 * `[module index]` - (Optional) [Index](#index-values-for-modules-and-resources)
   to select an instance from a module call that has multiple instances,
   surrounded by square bracket characters (`[` and `]`).

An address without a resource spec, i.e. `module.foo` applies to every resource within
the module if a single module, or all instances of a module if a module has multiple instances.
To address all resources of a particular module instance, include the module index in the address,
such as `module.foo[0]`.

If the module path is omitted, the address applies to the root module.

An example of the `module` keyword delineating between two modules that have multiple instances:

```
module.foo[0].module.bar["a"]
```

-> Module index only applies to modules in Terraform v0.13 or later. In earlier
versions of Terraform, a module could not have multiple instances.

## Resource spec

A resource spec addresses a specific resource instance in the selected module.
It has the following syntax:

```
resource_type.resource_name[instance index]
```

 * `resource_type` - Type of the resource being addressed.
 * `resource_name` - User-defined name of the resource.
 * `[instance index]` - (Optional) [Index](#index-values-for-modules-and-resources)
   to select an instance from a resource that has multiple instances,
   surrounded by square bracket characters (`[` and `]`).

-> In Terraform v0.12 and later, a resource spec without a module path prefix
matches only resources in the root module. In earlier versions, a resource spec
without a module path prefix would match resources with the same type and name
in any descendent module.

## Index values for Modules and Resources

The following specifications apply to index values on modules and resources with multiple instances:

 * `[N]` where `N` is a `0`-based numerical index into a resource with multiple
   instances specified by the `count` meta-argument. Omitting an index when
   addressing a resource where `count > 1` means that the address references
   all instances.
 * `["INDEX"]` where `INDEX` is a alphanumerical key index into a resource with
   multiple instances specified by the `for_each` meta-argument.

## Examples

### count Example

Given a Terraform config that includes:

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  # ...
  count = 4
}
```

An address like this:

```
aws_instance.web[3]
```

Refers to only the last instance in the config, and an address like this:

```
aws_instance.web
```

Refers to all four "web" instances.

### for_each Example

Given a Terraform config that includes:

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  # ...
  for_each = {
    "terraform": "value1",
    "resource":  "value2",
    "indexing":  "value3",
    "example":   "value4",
  }
}
```

An address like this:

```
aws_instance.web["example"]
```

Refers to only the "example" instance in the config.
