website/docs/configuration/functions/element.html.md, before:

---
layout: "language"
page_title: "element - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-collection-element"
description: |-
  The element function retrieves a single element from a list.
---

# `element` Function

-> **Note:** This page is about Terraform 0.12 and later. For Terraform 0.11 and
earlier, see
[0.11 Configuration Language: Interpolation Syntax](../../configuration-0-11/interpolation.html).

`element` retrieves a single element from a list.

```hcl
element(list, index)
```

The index is zero-based. This function produces an error if used with an
empty list.

Use the built-in index syntax `list[index]` in most cases. Use this function
only for the special additional "wrap-around" behavior described below.

## Examples

```
> element(["a", "b", "c"], 1)
b
```

If the given index is greater than the length of the list then the index is
"wrapped around" by taking the index modulo the length of the list:

```
> element(["a", "b", "c"], 3)
a
```

## Related Functions

* [`index`](./index.html) finds the index for a particular element value.
* [`lookup`](./lookup.html) retrieves a value from a _map_ given its _key_.

Commit message:

website: Miscellaneous 0.14 docs backports (#26966)
Several docs changes from upstream that haven't made it to 0.14 yet, which will make the experience a bit nicer on launch day.

- Martin's "don't say it's easy" PR #26696
- Clarification of element() behavior #26679
- A typo in lookup() #26835
- Clarification of pessimistic version constraint wording #26668
- Removing old static list of community providers #26595

Co-authored-by: Martin Atkins <mart@degeneration.co.uk>
Co-authored-by: craiggenner <craig@tuxx.org.uk>
Co-authored-by: Joshua Mendoza <10285345+joshuamzm@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Repon Kumar Roy <repon.roy@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Tony Carmichael <1105554+aicarmic@users.noreply.github.com>

website/docs/configuration/functions/element.html.md, after:

---
layout: "language"
page_title: "element - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-collection-element"
description: |-
  The element function retrieves a single element from a list.
---

# `element` Function

-> **Note:** This page is about Terraform 0.12 and later. For Terraform 0.11 and
earlier, see
[0.11 Configuration Language: Interpolation Syntax](../../configuration-0-11/interpolation.html).

`element` retrieves a single element from a list.

```hcl
element(list, index)
```

The index is zero-based. This function produces an error if used with an
empty list. The index must be a non-negative integer.

Use the built-in index syntax `list[index]` in most cases. Use this function
only for the special additional "wrap-around" behavior described below.

## Examples

```
> element(["a", "b", "c"], 1)
b
```

If the given index is greater than the length of the list then the index is
"wrapped around" by taking the index modulo the length of the list:

```
> element(["a", "b", "c"], 3)
a
```

To get the last element from the list use [`length`](./length.html) to find
the size of the list (minus 1 as the list is zero-based) and then pick the
last element:

```
> element(["a", "b", "c"], length(["a", "b", "c"])-1)
c
```

## Related Functions

* [`index`](./index.html) finds the index for a particular element value.
* [`lookup`](./lookup.html) retrieves a value from a _map_ given its _key_.
