---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: apply"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-apply"
description: |-
  The `terraform apply` command is used to apply the changes required to reach the desired state of the configuration, or the pre-determined set of actions generated by a `terraform plan` execution plan.
---

# Command: apply

The `terraform apply` command is used to apply the changes required
to reach the desired state of the configuration, or the pre-determined
set of actions generated by a `terraform plan` execution plan.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform apply [options] [dir-or-plan]`

By default, `apply` scans the current directory for the configuration
and applies the changes appropriately. However, a path to another configuration
or an execution plan can be provided. Execution plans can be used to only
execute a pre-determined set of actions.

The `dir` argument can also be a [module source](/docs/modules/index.html).
In this case, `apply` behaves as though `init` were called with that
argument followed by an `apply` in the current directory. This is meant
as a shortcut for getting started.

The command-line flags are all optional. The list of available flags are:

* `-backup=path` - Path to the backup file. Defaults to `-state-out` with
  the ".backup" extension. Disabled by setting to "-".

* `-lock=true` - Lock the state file when locking is supported.

* `-lock-timeout=0s` - Duration to retry a state lock.

* `-input=true` - Ask for input for variables if not directly set.

* `-auto-approve=true` - Skip interactive approval of plan before applying. In a
  future version of Terraform, this flag's default value will change to false.

* `-no-color` - Disables output with coloring.

* `-parallelism=n` - Limit the number of concurrent operation as Terraform
  [walks the graph](/docs/internals/graph.html#walking-the-graph).

* `-refresh=true` - Update the state for each resource prior to planning
  and applying. This has no effect if a plan file is given directly to
  apply.

* `-state=path` - Path to the state file. Defaults to "terraform.tfstate".
  Ignored when [remote state](/docs/state/remote.html) is used.

* `-state-out=path` - Path to write updated state file. By default, the
  `-state` path will be used. Ignored when
  [remote state](/docs/state/remote.html) is used.

* `-target=resource` - A [Resource
  Address](/docs/internals/resource-addressing.html) to target. For more
  information, see
  [the targeting docs from `terraform plan`](/docs/commands/plan.html#resource-targeting).

* `-var 'foo=bar'` - Set a variable in the Terraform configuration. This flag
  can be set multiple times. Variable values are interpreted as
  [HCL](/docs/configuration/syntax.html#HCL), so list and map values can be
  specified via this flag.

* `-var-file=foo` - Set variables in the Terraform configuration from
   a [variable file](/docs/configuration/variables.html#variable-files). If
  any files matching "*.tfvars" are present, they will be automatically loaded
  in alphabetical order. Any files specified by `-var-file` override any values
  set automatically from files in the working directory. This flag can be used
  multiple times.
