website/docs/commands/taint.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: taint"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-taint"
description: |-
  The `terraform taint` command manually marks a Terraform-managed resource as tainted, forcing it to be destroyed and recreated on the next apply.
---

# Command: taint

The `terraform taint` command manually marks a Terraform-managed resource
as tainted, forcing it to be destroyed and recreated on the next apply.

This command _will not_ modify infrastructure, but does modify the
state file in order to mark a resource as tainted. Once a resource is
marked as tainted, the next
[plan](/docs/commands/plan.html) will show that the resource will
be destroyed and recreated and the next
[apply](/docs/commands/apply.html) will implement this change.

Forcing the recreation of a resource is useful when you want a certain
side effect of recreation that is not visible in the attributes of a resource.
For example: re-running provisioners will cause the node to be different
or rebooting the machine from a base image will cause new startup scripts
to run.

Note that tainting a resource for recreation may affect resources that
depend on the newly tainted resource. For example, a DNS resource that
uses the IP address of a server may need to be modified to reflect
the potentially new IP address of a tainted server. The
[plan command](/docs/commands/plan.html) will show this if this is
the case.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform taint [options] address`

The `address` argument is the address of the resource to mark as tainted.
The address is in
[the resource address syntax](/docs/internals/resource-addressing.html) syntax,
as shown in the output from other commands, such as:

 * `aws_instance.foo`
 * `aws_instance.bar[1]`
 * `aws_instance.baz``[\"key\"]` (quotes in resource addresses must be escaped on the command line, so that they are not interpreted by your shell)
 * `module.foo.module.bar.aws_instance.qux`

The command-line flags are all optional. The list of available flags are:

* `-allow-missing` - If specified, the command will succeed (exit code 0)
    even if the resource is missing. The command can still error, but only
    in critically erroneous cases.

* `-backup=path` - Path to the backup file. Defaults to `-state-out` with
  the ".backup" extension. Disabled by setting to "-".

* `-lock=true` - Lock the state file when locking is supported.

* `-lock-timeout=0s` - Duration to retry a state lock.

* `-state=path` - Path to read and write the state file to. Defaults to "terraform.tfstate".
  Ignored when [remote state](/docs/state/remote.html) is used.

* `-state-out=path` - Path to write updated state file. By default, the
  `-state` path will be used. Ignored when
  [remote state](/docs/state/remote.html) is used.

## Example: Tainting a Single Resource

This example will taint a single resource:

```
$ terraform taint aws_security_group.allow_all
The resource aws_security_group.allow_all in the module root has been marked as tainted.
```

## Example: Tainting a single resource created with for_each

It is necessary to wrap the resource in single quotes and escape the quotes.
This example will taint a single resource created with for_each:

```
$ terraform taint "module.route_tables.azurerm_route_table.rt[\"DefaultSubnet\"]"
The resource module.route_tables.azurerm_route_table.rt["DefaultSubnet"] in the module root has been marked as tainted.
```


## Example: Tainting a Resource within a Module

This example will only taint a resource within a module:

```
$ terraform taint "module.couchbase.aws_instance.cb_node[9]"
Resource instance module.couchbase.aws_instance.cb_node[9] has been marked as tainted.
```

Although we recommend that most configurations use only one level of nesting
and employ [module composition](/docs/modules/composition.html), it's possible
to have multiple levels of nested modules. In that case the resource instance
address must include all of the steps to the target instance, as in the
following example:

```
$ terraform taint "module.child.module.grandchild.aws_instance.example[2]"
Resource instance module.child.module.grandchild.aws_instance.example[2] has been marked as tainted.
```

Commit message:

update taint command example
Fix the example to match the usual shell style, and add a note about
different shells requiring different escaping formats.

website/docs/commands/taint.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: taint"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-taint"
description: |-
  The `terraform taint` command manually marks a Terraform-managed resource as tainted, forcing it to be destroyed and recreated on the next apply.
---

# Command: taint

The `terraform taint` command manually marks a Terraform-managed resource
as tainted, forcing it to be destroyed and recreated on the next apply.

This command _will not_ modify infrastructure, but does modify the
state file in order to mark a resource as tainted. Once a resource is
marked as tainted, the next
[plan](/docs/commands/plan.html) will show that the resource will
be destroyed and recreated and the next
[apply](/docs/commands/apply.html) will implement this change.

Forcing the recreation of a resource is useful when you want a certain
side effect of recreation that is not visible in the attributes of a resource.
For example: re-running provisioners will cause the node to be different
or rebooting the machine from a base image will cause new startup scripts
to run.

Note that tainting a resource for recreation may affect resources that
depend on the newly tainted resource. For example, a DNS resource that
uses the IP address of a server may need to be modified to reflect
the potentially new IP address of a tainted server. The
[plan command](/docs/commands/plan.html) will show this if this is
the case.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform taint [options] address`

The `address` argument is the address of the resource to mark as tainted.
The address is in
[the resource address syntax](/docs/internals/resource-addressing.html) syntax,
as shown in the output from other commands, such as:

 * `aws_instance.foo`
 * `aws_instance.bar[1]`
 * `aws_instance.baz``[\"key\"]` (quotes in resource addresses must be escaped on the command line, so that they are not interpreted by your shell)
 * `module.foo.module.bar.aws_instance.qux`

The command-line flags are all optional. The list of available flags are:

* `-allow-missing` - If specified, the command will succeed (exit code 0)
    even if the resource is missing. The command can still error, but only
    in critically erroneous cases.

* `-backup=path` - Path to the backup file. Defaults to `-state-out` with
  the ".backup" extension. Disabled by setting to "-".

* `-lock=true` - Lock the state file when locking is supported.

* `-lock-timeout=0s` - Duration to retry a state lock.

* `-state=path` - Path to read and write the state file to. Defaults to "terraform.tfstate".
  Ignored when [remote state](/docs/state/remote.html) is used.

* `-state-out=path` - Path to write updated state file. By default, the
  `-state` path will be used. Ignored when
  [remote state](/docs/state/remote.html) is used.

## Example: Tainting a Single Resource

This example will taint a single resource:

```
$ terraform taint aws_security_group.allow_all
The resource aws_security_group.allow_all in the module root has been marked as tainted.
```

## Example: Tainting a single resource created with for_each

This example will taint a single resource created with for_each:

```
$ terraform taint 'module.route_tables.azurerm_route_table.rt["DefaultSubnet"]'
The resource module.route_tables.azurerm_route_table.rt["DefaultSubnet"] in the module root has been marked as tainted.
```

~> Note: In most `sh` compatible shells, double quotes and spaces can be
escaped by wrapping the argument in single quotes. This however varies between
other shells and operating systems, and users should use the appropriate escape
characters based on the applicable quoting rules for their shell to pass the
address string, including quotes, to Terraform.

## Example: Tainting a Resource within a Module

This example will only taint a resource within a module:

```
$ terraform taint "module.couchbase.aws_instance.cb_node[9]"
Resource instance module.couchbase.aws_instance.cb_node[9] has been marked as tainted.
```

Although we recommend that most configurations use only one level of nesting
and employ [module composition](/docs/modules/composition.html), it's possible
to have multiple levels of nested modules. In that case the resource instance
address must include all of the steps to the target instance, as in the
following example:

```
$ terraform taint "module.child.module.grandchild.aws_instance.example[2]"
Resource instance module.child.module.grandchild.aws_instance.example[2] has been marked as tainted.
```
