website/source/docs/providers/google/r/compute_instance_template.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "google"
page_title: "Google: google_compute_instance_template"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-resource-instance_template"
description: |-
  Manages a VM instance template resource within GCE.
---


# google\_compute\_instance\_template

Manages a VM instance template resource within GCE.  For more information see
[the official documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instance-templates)
and
[API](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/reference/latest/instanceTemplates).


## Example Usage

```
resource "google_compute_instance_template" "foobar" {
	name = "terraform-test"
	description = "template description"
	instance_description = "description assigned to instances"
	machine_type = "n1-standard-1"
	can_ip_forward = false
	automatic_restart = true
	on_host_maintenance = "MIGRATE"
	tags = ["foo", "bar"]

	# Create a new boot disk from an image
	disk {
		source_image = "debian-7-wheezy-v20140814"
		auto_delete = true
		boot = true
	}

	# Use an existing disk resource
	disk {
		source = "foo_existing_disk"
		auto_delete = false
		boot = false
	}

	network_interface {
		network = "default"
	}

	metadata {
		foo = "bar"
	}

	service_account {
		scopes = ["userinfo-email", "compute-ro", "storage-ro"]
	}
}
```

## Argument Reference

Note that changing any field for this resource forces a new resource to be created.

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - (Required) A unique name for the resource, required by GCE.

* `description` - (Optional) A brief description of this resource.

* `can_ip_forward` - (Optional) Whether to allow sending and receiving of
	packets with non-matching source or destination IPs.
	This defaults to false.

* `instance_description` - (Optional) A brief description to use for instances
	created from this template.

* `machine_type` - (Required) The machine type to create.

* `disk` - (Required) Disks to attach to instances created from this
	template. This can be specified multiple times for multiple disks.
	Structure is documented below.

* `metadata` - (Optional) Metadata key/value pairs to make available from
	within instances created from this template.

* `network_interface` - (Required) Networks to attach to instances created from this template.
 	This can be specified multiple times for multiple networks. Structure is
	documented below.

* `automatic_restart` - (Optional) Specifies whether the instance should be
	automatically restarted if it is terminated by Compute Engine (not
	terminated by a user).
	This defaults to true.

* `on_host_maintenance` - (Optional) Defines the maintenance behavior for this
	instance.

* `service_account` - (Optional) Service account to attach to the instance.

* `tags` - (Optional) Tags to attach to the instance.



The `disk` block supports:

* `auto_delete` - (Optional) Whether or not the disk should be auto-deleted.
	This defaults to true.

* `boot` - (Optional) Indicates that this is a boot disk.

* `device_name` - (Optional) A unique device name that is reflected into
	the /dev/  tree of a Linux operating system running within the instance.
	If not specified, the server chooses a default device name to apply to
	this disk.

* `disk_name` - (Optional) Name of the disk. When not provided, this defaults
	to the name of the instance.

* `source_image` - (Required if source not set) The name of the image to base
	this disk off of.

* `interface` - (Optional) Specifies the disk interface to use for attaching
	this disk.

* `mode` - (Optional) The mode in which to attach this disk, either READ_WRITE
	or READ_ONLY. If you are attaching or creating a boot disk, this must
	read-write mode.

* `source` - (Required if source_image not set) The name of the disk (such as
	those managed by `google_compute_disk`) to attach.

* `type` - (Optional) The GCE disk type.

The `network_interface` block supports:

* `network` - (Required) The name of the network to attach this interface to.

* `access_config` - (Optional) Access configurations, i.e. IPs via which this instance can be
  accessed via the Internet.  Omit to ensure that the instance is not accessible from the Internet
(this means that ssh provisioners will not work unless you are running Terraform can send traffic to
the instance's network (e.g. via tunnel or because it is running on another cloud instance on that
network).  This block can be repeated multiple times.  Structure documented below.

The `access_config` block supports:

* `nat_ip` - (Optional) The IP address that will be 1:1 mapped to the instance's network ip.  If not
  given, one will be generated.

The `service_account` block supports:

* `scopes` - (Required) A list of service scopes. Both OAuth2 URLs and gcloud
	short names are supported.

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported:

* `self_link` - The URL of the created resource.

Commit message:

Added Infoblox DNS provider that supports A records

website/source/docs/providers/google/r/compute_instance_template.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "google"
page_title: "Google: google_compute_instance_template"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-compute-instance-template"
description: |-
  Manages a VM instance template resource within GCE.
---


# google\_compute\_instance\_template

Manages a VM instance template resource within GCE.  For more information see
[the official documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instance-templates)
and
[API](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/reference/latest/instanceTemplates).


## Example Usage

```
resource "google_compute_instance_template" "foobar" {
	name = "terraform-test"
	description = "template description"
	instance_description = "description assigned to instances"
	machine_type = "n1-standard-1"
	can_ip_forward = false
	automatic_restart = true
	on_host_maintenance = "MIGRATE"
	tags = ["foo", "bar"]

	# Create a new boot disk from an image
	disk {
		source_image = "debian-7-wheezy-v20140814"
		auto_delete = true
		boot = true
	}

	# Use an existing disk resource
	disk {
		source = "foo_existing_disk"
		auto_delete = false
		boot = false
	}

	network_interface {
		network = "default"
	}

	metadata {
		foo = "bar"
	}

	service_account {
		scopes = ["userinfo-email", "compute-ro", "storage-ro"]
	}
}
```

## Argument Reference

Note that changing any field for this resource forces a new resource to be created.

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - (Required) A unique name for the resource, required by GCE.

* `description` - (Optional) A brief description of this resource.

* `can_ip_forward` - (Optional) Whether to allow sending and receiving of
	packets with non-matching source or destination IPs.
	This defaults to false.

* `instance_description` - (Optional) A brief description to use for instances
	created from this template.

* `machine_type` - (Required) The machine type to create.

* `disk` - (Required) Disks to attach to instances created from this
	template. This can be specified multiple times for multiple disks.
	Structure is documented below.

* `metadata` - (Optional) Metadata key/value pairs to make available from
	within instances created from this template.

* `network_interface` - (Required) Networks to attach to instances created from this template.
 	This can be specified multiple times for multiple networks. Structure is
	documented below.

* `automatic_restart` - (Optional, Deprecated - see `scheduling`) 
	Specifies whether the instance should be
	automatically restarted if it is terminated by Compute Engine (not
	terminated by a user).
	This defaults to true.

* `on_host_maintenance` - (Optional, Deprecated - see `scheduling`) 
	Defines the maintenance behavior for this instance.

* `service_account` - (Optional) Service account to attach to the instance.

* `tags` - (Optional) Tags to attach to the instance.



The `disk` block supports:

* `auto_delete` - (Optional) Whether or not the disk should be auto-deleted.
	This defaults to true.

* `boot` - (Optional) Indicates that this is a boot disk.

* `device_name` - (Optional) A unique device name that is reflected into
	the /dev/  tree of a Linux operating system running within the instance.
	If not specified, the server chooses a default device name to apply to
	this disk.

* `disk_name` - (Optional) Name of the disk. When not provided, this defaults
	to the name of the instance.

* `source_image` - (Required if source not set) The name of the image to base
	this disk off of.

* `interface` - (Optional) Specifies the disk interface to use for attaching
	this disk.

* `mode` - (Optional) The mode in which to attach this disk, either READ_WRITE
	or READ_ONLY. If you are attaching or creating a boot disk, this must
	read-write mode.

* `source` - (Required if source_image not set) The name of the disk (such as
	those managed by `google_compute_disk`) to attach.

* `type` - (Optional) The GCE disk type.

The `network_interface` block supports:

* `network` - (Required) The name of the network to attach this interface to.

* `access_config` - (Optional) Access configurations, i.e. IPs via which this instance can be
  accessed via the Internet.  Omit to ensure that the instance is not accessible from the Internet
(this means that ssh provisioners will not work unless you are running Terraform can send traffic to
the instance's network (e.g. via tunnel or because it is running on another cloud instance on that
network).  This block can be repeated multiple times.  Structure documented below.

The `access_config` block supports:

* `nat_ip` - (Optional) The IP address that will be 1:1 mapped to the instance's network ip.  If not
  given, one will be generated.

The `service_account` block supports:

* `scopes` - (Required) A list of service scopes. Both OAuth2 URLs and gcloud
	short names are supported.

The `scheduling` block supports:

* `automatic_restart` - (Optional) Specifies whether the instance should be
	automatically restarted if it is terminated by Compute Engine (not
	terminated by a user).
	This defaults to true.

* `on_host_maintenance` - (Optional) Defines the maintenance behavior for this instance.

* `preemptible` - (Optional) Allows instance to be preempted. Read 
	more on this [here](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/preemptible).

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported:

* `self_link` - The URL of the created resource.
