website/source/docs/providers/docker/r/image.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "docker"
page_title: "Docker: docker_image"
sidebar_current: "docs-docker-resource-image"
description: |-
  Downloads and exports the ID of a Docker image.
---

# docker\_image

Downloads and exports the ID of a Docker image. This can be used alongside
[docker\_container](/docs/providers/docker/r/container.html)
to programmatically get the latest image IDs without having to hardcode
them.

## Example Usage

```
# Find the latest Ubuntu precise image.
resource "docker_image" "ubuntu" {
    name = "ubuntu:precise"
}

# Access it somewhere else with ${docker_image.ubuntu.latest}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - (Required, string) The name of the Docker image, including any tags.
* `keep_updated` - (Optional, boolean) If true, then the Docker image will
  always be updated on the host to the latest. If this is false, as long as an
  image is downloaded with the correct tag, it won't be redownloaded if
  there is a newer image.
* `keep_locally` - (Optional, boolean) If true, then the Docker image won't be
  deleted on destroy operation. If this is false, it will delete the image from
  the docker local storage on destroy operation.

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported in addition to the above configuration:

* `latest` (string) - The ID of the image.

Commit message:

docker/docs: Document new data source + limitations

website/source/docs/providers/docker/r/image.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "docker"
page_title: "Docker: docker_image"
sidebar_current: "docs-docker-resource-image"
description: |-
  Pulls a Docker image to a given Docker host.
---

# docker\_image

-> **Note:** The initial (current) version of this resource can only pull **public** images **from the official Docker Hub Registry**.

Pulls a Docker image to a given Docker host from a Docker Registry.

This resource will *not* pull new layers of the image automatically unless used in
conjuction with [`docker_registry_image`](/docs/providers/docker/d/registry_image.html)
data source to update the `pull_trigger` field.

## Example Usage

```
# Find the latest Ubuntu precise image.
resource "docker_image" "ubuntu" {
    name = "ubuntu:precise"
}

# Access it somewhere else with ${docker_image.ubuntu.latest}
```

### Dynamic image

```
data "docker_registry_image" "ubuntu" {
    name = "ubuntu:precise"
}

resource "docker_image" "ubuntu" {
    name = "${data.docker_registry_image.ubuntu.name}"
    pull_trigger = "${data.docker_registry_image.ubuntu.sha256_digest}"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - (Required, string) The name of the Docker image, including any tags.
* `keep_locally` - (Optional, boolean) If true, then the Docker image won't be
  deleted on destroy operation. If this is false, it will delete the image from
  the docker local storage on destroy operation.
* `pull_trigger` - (Optional, string) Used to store the image digest from the
  registry and will cause an image pull when changed. Needed when using
  the `docker_registry_image` [data source](/docs/providers/docker/d/registry_image.html)
  to trigger an update of the image.

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported in addition to the above configuration:

* `latest` (string) - The ID of the image.
