website/docs/language/index.html.md, before:

---
layout: "language"
page_title: "Overview - Configuration Language"
---

# Terraform Language Documentation

This is the documentation for Terraform's configuration language. It is relevant
to users of [Terraform CLI](/docs/cli/index.html),
[Terraform Cloud](/docs/cloud/index.html), and
[Terraform Enterprise](/docs/enterprise/index.html). Terraform's language is
its primary user interface. Configuration files you write in Terraform
language tell Terraform what plugins to install, what infrastructure to create,
and what data to fetch. Terraform language also lets you define dependencies
between resources and create multiple similar resources from a single
configuration block.

> **Hands-on:** Try the [Write Terraform Configuration](https://learn.hashicorp.com/collections/terraform/configuration-language) tutorials on HashiCorp Learn.

## About the Terraform Language

The main purpose of the Terraform language is declaring
[resources](/docs/language/resources/index.html), which represent infrastructure objects. All other
language features exist only to make the definition of resources more flexible
and convenient.

A _Terraform configuration_ is a complete document in the Terraform language
that tells Terraform how to manage a given collection of infrastructure. A
configuration can consist of multiple files and directories.

The syntax of the Terraform language consists of only a few basic elements:

```hcl
resource "aws_vpc" "main" {
  cidr_block = var.base_cidr_block
}

<BLOCK TYPE> "<BLOCK LABEL>" "<BLOCK LABEL>" {
  # Block body
  <IDENTIFIER> = <EXPRESSION> # Argument
}
```

- _Blocks_ are containers for other content and usually represent the
  configuration of some kind of object, like a resource. Blocks have a
  _block type,_ can have zero or more _labels,_ and have a _body_ that contains
  any number of arguments and nested blocks. Most of Terraform's features are
  controlled by top-level blocks in a configuration file.
- _Arguments_ assign a value to a name. They appear within blocks.
- _Expressions_ represent a value, either literally or by referencing and
  combining other values. They appear as values for arguments, or within other
  expressions.

The Terraform language is declarative, describing an intended goal rather than
the steps to reach that goal. The ordering of blocks and the files they are
organized into are generally not significant; Terraform only considers implicit
and explicit relationships between resources when determining an order of
operations.

### Example

The following example describes a simple network topology for Amazon Web
Services, just to give a sense of the overall structure and syntax of the
Terraform language. Similar configurations can be created for other virtual
network services, using resource types defined by other providers, and a
practical network configuration will often contain additional elements not
shown here.

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 1.0.4"
    }
  }
}

variable "aws_region" {}

variable "base_cidr_block" {
  description = "A /16 CIDR range definition, such as 10.1.0.0/16, that the VPC will use"
  default = "10.1.0.0/16"
}

variable "availability_zones" {
  description = "A list of availability zones in which to create subnets"
  type = list(string)
}

provider "aws" {
  region = var.aws_region
}

resource "aws_vpc" "main" {
  # Referencing the base_cidr_block variable allows the network address
  # to be changed without modifying the configuration.
  cidr_block = var.base_cidr_block
}

resource "aws_subnet" "az" {
  # Create one subnet for each given availability zone.
  count = length(var.availability_zones)

  # For each subnet, use one of the specified availability zones.
  availability_zone = var.availability_zones[count.index]

  # By referencing the aws_vpc.main object, Terraform knows that the subnet
  # must be created only after the VPC is created.
  vpc_id = aws_vpc.main.id

  # Built-in functions and operators can be used for simple transformations of
  # values, such as computing a subnet address. Here we create a /20 prefix for
  # each subnet, using consecutive addresses for each availability zone,
  # such as 10.1.16.0/20 .
  cidr_block = cidrsubnet(aws_vpc.main.cidr_block, 4, count.index+1)
}
```

Commit message:

Add description metadata to index page

website/docs/language/index.html.md, after:

---
layout: "language"
page_title: "Overview - Configuration Language"
description: |-
  An introduction to the Terraform Configuration Language that is used to declare resources in infrastructure as code.
---

# Terraform Language Documentation

This is the documentation for Terraform's configuration language. It is relevant
to users of [Terraform CLI](/docs/cli/index.html),
[Terraform Cloud](/docs/cloud/index.html), and
[Terraform Enterprise](/docs/enterprise/index.html). Terraform's language is
its primary user interface. Configuration files you write in Terraform
language tell Terraform what plugins to install, what infrastructure to create,
and what data to fetch. Terraform language also lets you define dependencies
between resources and create multiple similar resources from a single
configuration block.

> **Hands-on:** Try the [Write Terraform Configuration](https://learn.hashicorp.com/collections/terraform/configuration-language) tutorials on HashiCorp Learn.

## About the Terraform Language

The main purpose of the Terraform language is declaring
[resources](/docs/language/resources/index.html), which represent infrastructure objects. All other
language features exist only to make the definition of resources more flexible
and convenient.

A _Terraform configuration_ is a complete document in the Terraform language
that tells Terraform how to manage a given collection of infrastructure. A
configuration can consist of multiple files and directories.

The syntax of the Terraform language consists of only a few basic elements:

```hcl
resource "aws_vpc" "main" {
  cidr_block = var.base_cidr_block
}

<BLOCK TYPE> "<BLOCK LABEL>" "<BLOCK LABEL>" {
  # Block body
  <IDENTIFIER> = <EXPRESSION> # Argument
}
```

- _Blocks_ are containers for other content and usually represent the
  configuration of some kind of object, like a resource. Blocks have a
  _block type,_ can have zero or more _labels,_ and have a _body_ that contains
  any number of arguments and nested blocks. Most of Terraform's features are
  controlled by top-level blocks in a configuration file.
- _Arguments_ assign a value to a name. They appear within blocks.
- _Expressions_ represent a value, either literally or by referencing and
  combining other values. They appear as values for arguments, or within other
  expressions.

The Terraform language is declarative, describing an intended goal rather than
the steps to reach that goal. The ordering of blocks and the files they are
organized into are generally not significant; Terraform only considers implicit
and explicit relationships between resources when determining an order of
operations.

### Example

The following example describes a simple network topology for Amazon Web
Services, just to give a sense of the overall structure and syntax of the
Terraform language. Similar configurations can be created for other virtual
network services, using resource types defined by other providers, and a
practical network configuration will often contain additional elements not
shown here.

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 1.0.4"
    }
  }
}

variable "aws_region" {}

variable "base_cidr_block" {
  description = "A /16 CIDR range definition, such as 10.1.0.0/16, that the VPC will use"
  default = "10.1.0.0/16"
}

variable "availability_zones" {
  description = "A list of availability zones in which to create subnets"
  type = list(string)
}

provider "aws" {
  region = var.aws_region
}

resource "aws_vpc" "main" {
  # Referencing the base_cidr_block variable allows the network address
  # to be changed without modifying the configuration.
  cidr_block = var.base_cidr_block
}

resource "aws_subnet" "az" {
  # Create one subnet for each given availability zone.
  count = length(var.availability_zones)

  # For each subnet, use one of the specified availability zones.
  availability_zone = var.availability_zones[count.index]

  # By referencing the aws_vpc.main object, Terraform knows that the subnet
  # must be created only after the VPC is created.
  vpc_id = aws_vpc.main.id

  # Built-in functions and operators can be used for simple transformations of
  # values, such as computing a subnet address. Here we create a /20 prefix for
  # each subnet, using consecutive addresses for each availability zone,
  # such as 10.1.16.0/20 .
  cidr_block = cidrsubnet(aws_vpc.main.cidr_block, 4, count.index+1)
}
```
