website/docs/cli/commands/add.html.md, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: add"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-add"
description: |-
  The `terraform add` command generates resource configuration templates.
---

# Command: add

The `terraform add` command generates a resource configuration template with
`null` placeholder values for all attributes, unless the `-from-state` flag is
used. By default, the template only includes required resource attributes; the
`-optional` flag tells Terraform to also include any optional attributes. 

## Usage

Usage: `terraform add [options] ADDRESS`

This command requires an address that points to a resource which does not
already exist in the configuration. Addresses are in 
[resource addressing format](/docs/cli/state/resource-addressing.html).

This command accepts the following options:

`-from-state=ADDRESS` - populate the template with values from a resource
already in state. Sensitive values are redacted.

`-optional` - include optional attributes in the template.

`-out=FILENAME` - writes the template to the given filename. If the file already
exists, the template will be added to the end of the file.

`-provider=provider` - override the configured provider for the resource. By
default, Terraform will use the configured provider for the given resource type,
and that is the best behavior in most cases.

Commit message:

add note about getting sensitive values from state

website/docs/cli/commands/add.html.md, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: add"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-add"
description: |-
  The `terraform add` command generates resource configuration templates.
---

# Command: add

The `terraform add` command generates a resource configuration template with
`null` placeholder values for all attributes, unless the `-from-state` flag is
used. By default, the template only includes required resource attributes; the
`-optional` flag tells Terraform to also include any optional attributes. 

When `terraform add` used with the `-from-state` will _not_ print sensitive
values. You can use `terraform show ADDRESS` to see all values, including
sensitive values, recorded in state for the given resource address.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform add [options] ADDRESS`

This command requires an address that points to a resource which does not
already exist in the configuration. Addresses are in 
[resource addressing format](/docs/cli/state/resource-addressing.html).

This command accepts the following options:

`-from-state=ADDRESS` - populate the template with values from a resource
already in state. Sensitive values are redacted.

`-optional` - include optional attributes in the template.

`-out=FILENAME` - writes the template to the given filename. If the file already
exists, the template will be added to the end of the file.

`-provider=provider` - override the configured provider for the resource. By
default, Terraform will use the configured provider for the given resource type,
and that is the best behavior in most cases.
