website/docs/cli/commands/destroy.html.md, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: destroy"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-destroy"
description: |-
  The `terraform destroy` command is used to destroy the Terraform-managed infrastructure.
---

# Command: destroy

The `terraform destroy` command is used to destroy the Terraform-managed
infrastructure.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform destroy [options]`

Infrastructure managed by Terraform will be destroyed. This will ask for
confirmation before destroying.

This command accepts all the arguments and options that the [apply
command](/docs/cli/commands/apply.html) accepts, with the exception of a plan file
argument.

If `-auto-approve` is set, then the destroy confirmation will not be shown.

The `-target` flag, instead of affecting "dependencies" will instead also
destroy any resources that _depend on_ the target(s) specified. For more information, see [the targeting docs from `terraform plan`](/docs/cli/commands/plan.html#resource-targeting).

The behavior of any `terraform destroy` command can be previewed at any time
with an equivalent `terraform plan -destroy` command.

Commit message:

website: Reworking of the "terraform plan" docs, and related pages
It's been a long time since we gave this page an overhaul, and with our
ongoing efforts to make plan and apply incorporate all of the side-effects
that might need to be done against a configuration it seems like a good
time for some restructuring in that vein.

The starting idea here is to formally split the many "terraform plan"
options into a few different categories:
 - Planning modes
 - Planning options
 - Other options

The planning modes and options are the subset that are also accepted by
"terraform apply" when it's running in its default mode of generating a
plan and then prompting for interactive approval of it. This then allows
us to avoid duplicating all of that information on the "terraform apply"
page, and thus allows us to spend more words discussing each of them.

This also changes the docs for "terraform refresh" and "terraform taint"
to frame them as legacy commands preserved for backward compatibility,
pointing users instead to the relevant options on "terraform plan".

This commit describes some new options that were added in previous commits
but for which we plan some further improvements in subsequent commits.
The new "terraform plan" options described here are therefore not fully
functional as of this commit, but they have been minimally implemented
in the last two commits before this one.

website/docs/cli/commands/destroy.html.md, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: destroy"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-destroy"
description: |-
  The `terraform destroy` command is a convenient way to destroy all objects
  managed by a particular Terraform configuration.
---

# Command: destroy

The `terraform destroy` command is a convenient way to destroy all remote
objects managed by a particular Terraform configuration.

While you will typically not want to destroy long-lived objects in a production
environment, Terraform is sometimes used to manage ephemeral infrastructure
for development purposes, in which case you can use `terraform destroy` to
conveniently clean up all of those temporary objects once you are finished
with your work.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform destroy [options]`

This command is just a convenience alias for the following command:

```
terraform apply -destroy
```

For that reason, this command accepts most of the options that
[`terraform apply`](./apply.html) accepts, although it does
not accept a plan file argument and forces the selection of the "destroy"
planning mode.

You can also create a speculative destroy plan, to see what the effect of
destroying would be, by running the following command:

```
terraform plan -destroy
```

This would run [`terraform plan`](./plan.html) in _destroy_ mode, showing
you the proposed destroy changes without executing them.

-> **Note:** The `-destroy` option to `terraform apply` exists only in
Terraform v1.0 and later. For earlier versions, you _must_ use
`terraform destroy` to get the effect of `terraform apply -destroy`.
