website/intro/vs/chef-puppet.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "intro"
page_title: "Terraform vs. Chef, Puppet, etc."
sidebar_current: "vs-other-chef"
description: |-
  Configuration management tools install and manage software on a machine that already exists. Terraform is not a configuration management tool, and it allows existing tooling to focus on their strengths: bootstrapping and initializing resources.
---

# Terraform vs. Chef, Puppet, etc.

Configuration management tools install and manage software on a machine
that already exists. Terraform is not a configuration management tool,
and it allows existing tooling to focus on their strengths: bootstrapping
and initializing resources.

Using provisioners, Terraform enables any configuration management tool
to be used to setup a resource once it has been created. Terraform
focuses on the higher-level abstraction of the datacenter and associated
services, without sacrificing the ability to use configuration management
tools to do what they do best. It also embraces the same codification that
is responsible for the success of those tools, making entire infrastructure
deployments easy and reliable.

Commit message:

website: Miscellaneous 0.14 docs backports (#26966)
Several docs changes from upstream that haven't made it to 0.14 yet, which will make the experience a bit nicer on launch day.

- Martin's "don't say it's easy" PR #26696
- Clarification of element() behavior #26679
- A typo in lookup() #26835
- Clarification of pessimistic version constraint wording #26668
- Removing old static list of community providers #26595

Co-authored-by: Martin Atkins <mart@degeneration.co.uk>
Co-authored-by: craiggenner <craig@tuxx.org.uk>
Co-authored-by: Joshua Mendoza <10285345+joshuamzm@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Repon Kumar Roy <repon.roy@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Tony Carmichael <1105554+aicarmic@users.noreply.github.com>

website/intro/vs/chef-puppet.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "intro"
page_title: "Terraform vs. Chef, Puppet, etc."
sidebar_current: "vs-other-chef"
description: |-
  Configuration management tools install and manage software on a machine that already exists. Terraform is not a configuration management tool, and it allows existing tooling to focus on their strengths: bootstrapping and initializing resources.
---

# Terraform vs. Chef, Puppet, etc.

Configuration management tools install and manage software on a machine
that already exists. Terraform is not a configuration management tool,
and it allows existing tooling to focus on their strengths: bootstrapping
and initializing resources.

Terraform focuses on the higher-level abstraction of the datacenter and
associated services, while allowing you to use configuration management
tools on individual systems. It also aims to bring the same benefits of
codification of your system configuration to infrastructure management.

If you are using traditional configuration management within your compute
instances, you can use Terraform to configure bootstrapping software like
cloud-init to activate your configuration management software on first
system boot.
