---
layout: "aws"
page_title: "AWS: dc_virtual_interface"
sidebar_current: "docs-aws-resource-dc-virtual-interface"
description: |-
  Provides a resource to create a DirectConnect Virtual Interface.
---

# aws\_dc\_virtual_interface

Provides a resource to create a DirectConnect Virtual Interface.

## Example Usage

```
resource "aws_dc_virtual_interface" "vif" {
  connection_id = "dxcon-xyz123"
  virtual_interface_name = "my-vif"
  asn = "12345"
  vlan = "1024"
  auth_key = "my_super_secret_bgp_key"
  amazon_address = "10.0.0.45/30"
  customer_address = "10.0.0.46/30"
  interface_type = "private"
  virtual_gateway_id = "vgw-xyz123"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `connection_id` - (Required) The connection ID for the DirectConnect connection.
* `virtual_interface_name` - (Required) The name of the virtual interface.
* `asn` - (Required) The BGP autonomous system number.
* `vlan` - (Required) The vlan id.
* `auth_key` - (Optional) The BGP secret auth key.
* `amazon_address` - (Optional) The IP along with the subnet mask for amazon's side of the small subnet used for the 2 routers BGP communication.
* `customer_address` - (Optional) The IP along with the subnet mask for your side of the small subnet used for the 2 routers BGP communication.
* `interface_type` - (Required) The type of the virtual interface [private,public].
* `virtual_gateway_id` - (Required for interface_type = private) The id of the vpn gateway to be used.
* `route_filter_prefixes` - (Required for interface_type = public) The list with routable cidrs to be filtered.


-> **Note:** There are 2 types of DirectConnect virtual interfaces. Private as shown in the above example and public that do not need a virtual_gateway_id but require a route_filter_prefixes list.

## Attributes Reference

The following attributes are exported:

* `id` - The ID of virtual interface.
* `amazon_address` - The IP address for amazon's interface (when autogenerated).
* `customer_address` - The IP address for your interface (when autogenerated).



