---
layout: "opc"
page_title: "Oracle: opc_compute_storage_volume_snapshot"
sidebar_current: "docs-opc-resource-storage-volume-snapshot"
description: |-
  Creates and manages a storage volume snapshot in an OPC identity domain.
---

# opc\_compute\_storage\_volume_snapshot

The ``opc_compute_storage_volume_snapshot`` resource creates and manages a storage volume snapshot in an OPC identity domain.

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "opc_compute_storage_volume_snapshot" "test" {
  name        = "storageVolume1"
  description = "Description for the Storage Volume"
  tags        = ["bar", "foo"]
  collocated  = true
  volume_name = "${opc_compute_storage_volume.foo.name}"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `volume_name` (Required) The name of the storage volume to create the snapshot from.
* `description` (Optional) The description of the storage volume snapshot.
* `name` (Optional) The name of the storage volume snapshot. Will be generated if unspecified.
* `parent_volume_bootable` (Optional) A string value of whether or not the parent volume is 'bootable' or not. Defaults to `"false"`.
* `collocated` (Optional) Boolean specifying whether the snapshot is collocated or remote. Defaults to `false`.
* `tags` - (Optional) Comma-separated strings that tag the storage volume.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the attributes above, the following attributes are exported:

* `account` - Account to use for snapshots.
* `machine_image_name` - The name of the machine image that's used in the boot volume from which this snapshot is taken.
* `size` - The size of the snapshot in GB.
* `property` - Where the snapshot is stored, whether collocated, or in the Oracle Storage Cloud Service instance.
* `platform` - The OS platform this snapshot is compatible with
* `snapshot_timestamp` - Timestamp of the storage snapshot, generated by storage server. The snapshot will contain data written to the original volume before this time.
* `snapshot_id` - The Oracle ID of the snapshot.
* `start_timestamp` - Timestamp when the snapshot was started.
* `status` - Status of the snapshot.
* `status_detail` - Details about the latest state of the storage volume snapshot.
* `status_timestamp` - Indicates the time that the current view of the storage volume snapshot was generated.
* `uri` - Uniform Resource Identifier

## Import

Storage Volume Snapshot's can be imported using the `resource name`, e.g.

```shell
$ terraform import opc_compute_storage_volume_snapshot.volume1 example
```
