website/docs/commands/workspace/delete.html.md, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: workspace delete"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-workspace-sub-delete"
description: |-
  The terraform workspace delete command is used to delete a workspace.
---

# Command: workspace delete

The `terraform workspace delete` command is used to delete an existing workspace.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform workspace delete [OPTIONS] NAME [DIR]`

This command will delete the specified workspace.

To delete an workspace, it must already exist, it must have an empty state,
and it must not be your current workspace. If the workspace state is not empty,
Terraform will not allow you to delete it unless the `-force` flag is specified.

If you delete a workspace with a non-empty state (via `-force`), then resources
may become "dangling". These are resources that physically exist but that
Terraform can no longer manage. This is sometimes preferred: you want
Terraform to stop managing resources so they can be managed some other way.
Most of the time, however, this is not intended and so Terraform protects you
from getting into this situation.

The command-line flags are all optional. The only supported flag is:

* `-force` - Delete the workspace even if its state is not empty. Defaults to false.
* `-lock`  - Lock the state file when locking is supported. Defaults to true.
* `-lock-timeout`   - Duration to retry a state lock. Default 0s.

## Example

```
$ terraform workspace delete example
Deleted workspace "example".
```

Commit message:

website: Draft docs for eliminating the "workspaces" terminology
For now this is just an exploration of what the new docs might look like
if we more forward with eliminating the "workspaces" terminology in favor
of "multiple states", because writing a user-friendly explanation for a
behavior often exposes confusing aspects that wouldn't necessarily be so
obvious just from implementing the behavior.

website/docs/commands/workspace/delete.html.md, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: state delete"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-state-sub-delete"
description: |-
  The terraform state delete command is used to delete a named state.
---

# Command: state delete

The `terraform state delete` command deletes one of the additional states that
you can optionally associate with your configuration.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform state delete [OPTIONS] NAME [DIR]`

If you are using [multiple states](/docs/state/multiple.html) with your
configuration then you can use `terraform state delete` to discard one of
the non-default states.

By default this command will refuse to delete a state that has at least one
resource tracked in it. You can use
[`terraform destroy`](../destroy.html) with that state selected to destroy the
objects associated with those resources.

Deleting a state without destroying all of the associated objects first would
cause Terraform to "forget" those objects and thus require you to delete them
manually outside of Terraform. If you want to delete a state without deleting
the associated objects first &mdash; and thus leaving them behind unmanaged
by Terraform &mdash; you can use the `-force` option to override the usual
error message in that case.

This command accepts the following options:

* `-force` - Delete the workspace even if its state is not empty.
* `-lock=false` - Disable the default behavior of locking the state before deleting it.
* `-lock-timeout=DURATION` - If the lock is already held, wait for the given duration in case the lock is released before returning an error.

## Example

```
$ terraform state delete example
Deleted state "example".
```
